Completely Fair Scheduler
=========================

Documentation/scheduler/sched-design-CFS.rst

TLDR
----

Run the task with the smallest p->se.vruntime value.


Virtual Runtime concept
-----------------------

On real hardware, we can run only a single task at once, so we have to
introduce the concept of "virtual runtime."  The virtual runtime of a task
specifies when its next timeslice would start execution on the ideal
multi-tasking CPU described above.  In practice, the virtual runtime of a task
is its actual runtime normalized to the total number of running tasks.


Task picking logic
------------------

CFS's task picking logic is based on this **p->se.vruntime** value and it is thus
very simple: it always tries to run the task with the smallest p->se.vruntime
value (i.e., the task which executed least so far).  CFS always tries to split
up CPU time between runnable tasks as close to "ideal multitasking hardware" as
possible.


Summing up, CFS works like this: it runs a task a bit, and when the task
schedules (or a scheduler tick happens) the task's CPU usage is "accounted
for": the (small) time it just spent using the physical CPU is added to
p->se.vruntime.  Once p->se.vruntime gets high enough so that another task
becomes the "leftmost task" of the time-ordered rbtree it maintains (plus a
small amount of "granularity" distance relative to the leftmost task so that we
do not over-schedule tasks and trash the cache), then the new leftmost task is
picked and the current task is preempted.



CFS uses nanosecond granularity accounting and does not rely on any jiffies or
other HZ detail.  Thus the CFS scheduler has no notion of "timeslices" in the
way the previous scheduler had, and has no heuristics whatsoever.  There is
only one central tunable (you have to switch on CONFIG_SCHED_DEBUG):

   /proc/sys/kernel/sched_min_granularity_ns

which can be used to tune the scheduler from "desktop" (i.e., low latencies) to
"server" (i.e., good batching) workloads.  It defaults to a setting suitable
for desktop workloads.  SCHED_BATCH is handled by the CFS scheduler module too.

